PAPER 1

INTRODUCTION
AI is a relatively new field of computer science. Although work on AI started soon after WWII, it has undergone exponential developement in the past 20-25 years. Over the years it has been defined in various ways. Although John Mccarthy is known as the father of AI, humans have for as far back as ~ 400 BC have been coming up with ideas and inventions all of which in their own way would become the stepping stone to taking AI where it is today. The greek philosopher Aristotle was the first one who tried to map logical decision making and called it "syllogism" [the quest for artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence: a modern approach].  
John McCarthy coined the term "Artificial Intelligence" in the mid-1950s defined it as "It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer programs." [WHAT IS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE? John McCarthy]. When we think of artificial intelligence, we think of  machines having human-like intelligence. It would mean that machines are able to rationale and make decisions when faced with a problem with the same prowess as humans. An intellgent human is often one who takes the most rational course of action in a given situation. When it is faced with a problem, an intelligent machine will make the most advantageous decision. In the past two decades, AI has made extraordianry progress. This can be credit to the massive and easily available datasets that eneabled  more experimenting along with increased understanding of intelligence. 

AI AND HEALTHCARE 
AI has branched out to multiple disciplines like medicine, robotics, [insert applications of AI with paper reeferences]. Among these, there has been a rapid and exponential growth in research related to AI in healthcare. Tran et al [Global Evolution of Research in Artificial Intelligence
in Health and Medicine: A Bibliometric Study] and Rong et al [Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare:Review and Prediction Case Studies, Engineering (2020)] have noted that between 1999-2018 the number of publications have increased significantly. This growth is quite reasonable given healthcare is increasingly required to be accuarte in prevention and early detection of diseases. AI and deep learning can play a major role in doing this. Real lives hang on the efficacy of healthcare. In today's world, where the it is widely believed that faster is better. In healthcare, where real lives hang on the efficacy of it, there needs to be a way to work that is both fast and accurate. AI and deep learning models can play a huge role in this. T

COVID 
Since the end of 2019, over 500 million people have been infected and 6 million people have died because of COVID-19. The virus is thought to have originated from bats but further studies refuted the claim. The current data is not fully able confirm if the transmission was from bats to humans directly or through an intermediate host. The current data also does not decline the possibility of "convergent  evolution". More data is required to give a concrete answer. [COVID-19: Epidemiology, Evolution, and Cross-Disciplinary Perspectives Jiumeng Sun]. 

CHEST X RAY AND COVID 
The most common method of diagnosing COVID 19 is through laboratory testing through identification of viral RNA in reverse transcriptasr polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). When RT-PCR is not available then chest imaging has been identfied as a suitable way of making diagnosis. Apart from diagnosis, it can also help in treatment of pateints already diagnosed with COVID. WHO suggests using chest imaging for diagnisus when (1) RT-PCR testing is not available (2)RT-PCR testing is available , but resulsts are delayed; and (3) initial RT_PCR testign is negative, but with high clinical suspicion of COVID-19. For patients with suspected or
confirmed COVID-19, not currently hospitalized and with moderate to severe symptoms, WHO suggests using chest imaging in addition to clinical and laboratory assessment to decide on regular ward admission versus intensive care unit (ICU) admission. For patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19, currently hospitalized and with moderate to severe symptoms, WHO suggests using chest imaging in addition to clinical and laboratory assessment to inform therapeutic management. For hospitalized patients with COVID-19 whose symptoms are resolved, WHO suggests not using chest imaging in addition to clinical and/or laboratory assessment to inform the decision
regarding discharge. 
he aforementioned gives us an idea of the increasing importance of chest imaging. Despite this, there are various things that need to be taken into consideration for the extensive use of chest imaging for diagnoses. The amount of resources available need to be taken into account inclusing the budget, personal protective equipment, imaging equipment and health workforce. Due to the wide spread of covid, the healthcare sector has been under a lot of pressure. 
The pandemic in 2020 taught us that everything can change in the blink of an eye. It quickly spread throughut globe and affected millions and millions of people. 

IMPORTANCE OF OUR PAPER
Since the spread of COVID the world of medicine has changed substantially. With the world health organisation taking the  lead, the world had to get used to the new normal and make strenuous chnages to slow down the spread through human to human transmission by ensuring early detection of infection. temporary facilities were set up to treat and isolate pateints. New technologies like home kits for testing COVID emerged. The pandemic in 2020 taught us that everything can change in the blink of eye. the pandemic afted millions and millions of people all around the globe. The healthcare systems of even the most developed countries were overwhelmed. The importance of a chest X ray in treating a diesease had never been more. The healthcare workers in this situaution stood outnumbered and overwhelmed. The world faced an acute shortage of radiologists during the pandemic. In an article, the Radiology Soceity of North America reported that Europe has 13 radiologists per 100,000 population and the UK has only 8.5 radiologists per 100,000 people. [rsna.org/news/2022/may/Global-Radiologist-Shortage]
In a study conducted by hegde et al, a questonnaire was prepared aimed at enuiring about the effect of COVID-19 on radiology practices and radiologists. The questonnaire was sent in July of 2020. In most countries, the first wave of COVID had eased by then and radiologists already had experience in dealing with a large  influx of COVID postive pateints. 200 responses from radiologists of 17 different countries were received. Close to half of them reported substantial deteriotion of their well being. this could be because of increased work load, anxiety of contacting the disease and further transmission to theit families, uncertainity about the future. more than 60% of the respondents beleived that there have been advesre effects on further trainig and CPD activities of radiologists. [Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on radiologists Ganesh Hegde1,]


LITERATURE RIVIEW:
in [Application of deep learning techniques for detection of COVID-19 cases using chest X-ray images: A comprehensive study]







