https://www.gminsights.com/industry-analysis/medical-x-ray-market
(Link talks about the market size of XRays and its increasing trends)

- Medical X-ray Market size valued at USD 13 billion in 2020 and is expected to witness 5.7% CAGR from 2021 to 2027

- Rising usage of direct radiography will surge the medical X-ray market demand

 The direct radiography (DR) segment held around 42% market share in 2020. DR technology helps in improving image
 resolution as well as contrast that further spreads the dynamic range of image by adjusting the window position along
 with width. DR provides better vision for clinical application for improved and advanced patient images. Furthermore,
 these X-ray films have been extensively utilized in orthopaedic and dental procedures for diagnosing the patients that
 secure the market expansion.


 
https://www.theguardian.com/society/2020/jul/14/english-nhs-hospitals-in-urgent-need-of-more-scanners-and-staff-to-deal-with-backlog
(Link talks about need of staffs to operate image diagnostics machines - highlighting importance of Automation in this industry)
contains outdated data of may-june 2020, not useful, can refer for vocabulary: 


- Hospital trusts across England urgently need more equipment, staff and space to deal with a huge backlog of scans
 for cancer and other conditions, as more than 600,000 people await CT, MRI and other scans amid the coronavirus crisis.

- The challenge is one of creating safe patient access to imaging facilities in a manner that respects the social
 distancing and other infection prevention rules set out nationally… We have for some time been utilising private
 sector hospitals and are establishing other additional resources, including mobile facilities, to increase volumes.

- There also need to be more staff to run them, she said. “So not just radiologists but radiographers, it is a
 whole-team approach that we need to get right.” She said it took time to train staff and there was inadequate funding.



https://statistics.blf.org.uk/pneumonia
(Link on Pneumonia statistics in UK)
Data talks about only the UK region, focusing mostly from 2004-2012 period, redundant for covid times and around the world.

- Pneumonia is an inflammation of one or both lungs, usually caused by an infection. It causes the alveoli (air sacs)
 inside the lungs to fill with fluid, making it harder for them to work properly. The body sends white blood cells to
 fight the infection, and while this helps kill the germs it can also make it harder for the lungs to pass oxygen into
 the bloodstream.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GIRFT Programme National Specialty Report on Radiology. - November 2020
(GIRFT is delivered in partnership with the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust, NHS England and NHS Improvement)
(Report talks about the increasing demand of imaging machines and centre's quality and how to tackle it with existing
 numbers in COVID-19)


Dr Katharine Halliday
GIRFT Clinical Lead for Radiology.

"The demand for imaging services has never been higher – and it is only going to grow"

"There is also an urgent need for more physical space in many radiology services. Units are cramped into small areas, often at 
the centre of the hospital. Patient dignity is often compromised, with inadequate waiting areas and a lack of privacy"

"COVID-19 has drastically affected the way healthcare is delivered worldwide. Rather than 
change our recommendations, the pandemic has made them even more pressing. Workforce and equipment shortages have 
been thrown into stark relief and cramped departments are woefully inadequate for social distancing."



 Over half of patients referred for MRI or 
ultrasound wait more than 14 days for the test to take place

 [* IMP *] The pandemic has brought the shortage of equipment to the fore. After scanning a COVID positive patient, a machine cannot 
be used for several hours while the area is thoroughly cleaned. Throughput has been drastically reduced, which is particularly 
concerning in trusts with only one scanner. 

About Radiology
	Radiology refers to the use of medical imaging to diagnose and treat injuries and diseases. It includes X-rays, ultrasound, 
	magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), fluoroscopy, computed axial tomography (CT) and interventional procedures. 
	The imaging and interventions provided are fundamental to the delivery of acute and elective clinical services across almost 
	every speciality within primary, secondary and tertiary care. 


Who are Radiologists?
	Radiologists are qualified doctors who often do not conduct the imaging and operate the equipment, but are trained to 
	interpret the images. They then produce a report about what the images show. These reports are used to inform the 
	treatment options for the patient’s ongoing care and are an essential part of the overall health record. 


Growth in demand 
Advances in technology and changes in clinical practice have led to increases in demand for imaging across a wide range of 
different specialties

Artificial intelligence in radiology 
There is a growing awareness of the potential of artificial intelligence (AI) to improve care, 
accelerate diagnosis and free up staff time. Radiology is seen by many as one of the specialties where AI can have the 
most impact, particularly through using AI for automated image interpretation.

The Topol Review21 predicted that within a decade, around 50% of radiology reporting could be supported by AI. 

We anticipate that AI will bring big changes to the processes and practice of radiology, hopefully improving efficiency 
and supporting faster and more accurate image interpretation. 


Glossary (refer for definitions):
Pg 78-79
